# DS310 Project Report 

Team 13: Bader Alhodithi, Chung-Yeh Yang, Michael Hyder, Yilan Hu, Thomas Boles, Ziyao Tang

## Introduction
Our group extracted, transformed, and loaded COVID-19 data to understand what policies were most effective in reducing cases and deaths. We were assigned the policies of contact tracing – no contact tracing, and international travel – no restrictions. We wanted to compare these policies to different levels of restriction within the same policy as well as relate our findings to the remainder of the policies. We wanted to solve the questions of which policies were most effective? Why are they so effective? And how can it be used in other countries to improve COVID-19 conditions?
                      
## Data
Before we could analyze the data we needed to clean it, normalize it, and understand it. We created eight datasets: Deaths, Cases, Recoveries, Metrics, Dates, Countries, Policies, and Population. The Deaths, Cases, and Recoveries datasets each had the cumulative number and the daily change in each respective issue. We added population data to enrich our findings and this dataset contains both populations of countries as well as their population density. All of these connect to our Metrics fact table. From there we created a Dates dataset that recorded several data metrics such as the full date, quarterly dates, and fiscal dates. The Countries contain all the countries and both Countries and Dates connect to our second fact table, Policies. The Policies database has many variables that represent the same policy but a different level of restriction. Low numbers are typically less restrictive, and a higher number means more restrictions. 

## Descriptive Analysis/Exploratory Data Analysis
Once we understood our data, we wanted to identify trends or patterns in how the policies interacted with the metrics data. For our assigned policies, we noticed that when they were at the lowest levels of no contact tracing and no international travel restrictions, the cases were higher than when countries raised restrictions. However, the majority of countries held strict restrictions on international travel, so there was a small sample size to analyze for this policy. Generally, we believe that the policies of internal movement and closing public transport are the most effective methods because of how the cases decrease when these levels of restriction increase as well as how they are compared to our policies. We used area and line charts to visualize the impact of these policies on cases compared with our assigned policies. 

## Statistical Data Analysis
For our statistical analysis we focused mainly on how the policies affected the daily number of cases. For example, the average daily cases in Russia when public transport restrictions were in place was 6,000. Comparing this to contact tracing and international travel with 11,563 and 10,752 respectively, this policy proved to be significantly more effective. Closing public transport reduces the risk of individuals being in enclosed spaces for long periods of time with infected people. Additionally, in Russia when internal movement was at its most restrictive level, average cases were at 6,000, but when it removed that policy to have no restrictions, cases jumped to 30,000. This shows that staying at home and restricting movement inside the country can help prevent the spread of COVID-19. 

## Evaluation
Our analysis shows that countries should enforce high levels of restriction on closing public transport and internal movement to reduce the spread of COVID-19. These findings can aid countries that are struggling to combat the virus and offer solutions to policy-makers around the world. One limitation to these conclusions is that the policies reduce cases once they begin to increase instead of preventing the spread to begin with. Additionally, our assigned policies were not very effective, and as a result, countries often did not stay at our level of restriction, so our sample size was relatively small. We ran into challenges looking to perform multivariate analysis on the policies and in the future would like to continue analyzing the data with even more sophisticated techniques. 
